on the latest Masters in Business
podcast. What a fascinating
conversation. I sit down with Ben Hunt.
He uh writes epsilon theory, but he is
also the president and co-founder of
Perciant. What a fascinating uh analytic
story they've put together. They
essentially take feeds of everything
that's published around the world,
whether it's in English or Chinese or
Russian. They create these large
language [music] models and use
artificial intelligence to identify
rising narratives. In other words,
they're looking for the things that will
become storylines but haven't quite hit
that yet. I I found this conversation to
be absolutely fascinating and I think
you will also. With no further ado, my
conversation with Percience Ben Hunt.
[music]
Ben Hunt, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Well, this is
>> I love the intro. I got to have you at
all my events.
>> That's right. I'm available for hire. I
can introduce you at at uh weddings, bar
mitzvah, wherever you're giving a toast.
I'll be happy to tee you up. Um this is
long overdue. I've followed your work
for so long. I'm fascinated uh by both
what you put out in your blog epsilon
theory.
>> Thank you.
>> And um which is now a blog and a
newsletter and and the work you do at
Persian. We're going to get to that
stuff, but before we do,
>> I got to ask PhD from Harvard. You were
a tenur political science professor. Was
academia the original career plan?
>> You know, it's interesting, Mary. So I
academia was always a I'll call it a a
way station for me. It ended up being
>> a 10-year way station
>> 10 10 year weigh station plus grad
school.
>> But I
>> that's a little more than a way station.
>> It's a little more than a way station.
But I I bet this will be familiar for a
lot of your listeners. I always had an
entrepreneurial bug.
>> Uhhuh.
>> You know, I started my first company
when I was in grad school. Started
another one when I was when I was a
professor. And as I know you know and a
lot of your listeners viewers know it is
it is a bug. It's not a feature.
>> Yes. For sure.
>> You can't help yourself.
>> So let me ask you a question about that.
>> Academia is not the place to be an
>> for sure. So I know why I've started a
series of companies. I can't work for
other people.
>> Why? Why did you have that bug? What
what motivated you to say I gotta get
this out into the world?
I love playing games and solving
problems. I I have a similar issue about
working for other people which
fortunately academia solves that to a
large degree. I mean you you are working
on your own stuff. You follow your own
intellectual bliss in a way that I've
really never uh rediscovered. The the
problem with academia of course is
you know it's very very low stakes. It
don't it don't pay.
>> That's why that's why the academic
fights are so vicious
>> because there's nothing at stake.
>> Right.
>> And and that that is actually true.
That's actually true. And so you learn
survival techniques and that kind of
jungle where nothing is really at stake
at least monetarily because the the goal
of any sort of academia conference or
presentation like is to appear smart,
>> right? It's not to actually be smart.
You're not actually listening to a
presentation to listen to it. What you
learn to do is you're listening to the
presentation.
The whole time you're trying to
calculate your head, what's the most
devastating question I can ask?
[laughter]
>> So, you're going to rock this guy back
on his heels with a devastating
>> a devastating question. And boy, that
gets old after a while, Barry. I got to
tell you, it really does. I I loved the
teaching. I loved the the research
because like I say, nobody tells you
what to work on, but the the church of
academia,
>> the the actual institution of academia,
>> a it's for the birds even back when I
was doing it, right? And
>> I think it's gotten significantly worse.
>> I can imagine. I can imagine what's
happening with that. So, but the
question that this leads me to is you've
had all these jobs within the world of
finance. How did your background in
academia shape how you view uh
investing, risk management, allocation,
>> Barry? Starting from academia and then
getting into
our business of investing, I think it
was the best thing that could have
happened for me for when I got into it,
which is kind of later in life, right?
Because
>> you know after I left academia finally
to start a software company and it after
we sold that software company yeah
a a buddy of mine that I think this
happens a lot right a buddy of you know
you have a buddy who's
>> you seem to be pretty smart how would
you like to apply this
>> we're always we're always talking about
company X or technology Y why don't you
know why don't you come in let's let's
give this a try So that was my path, if
you want to call it a path.
>> And what really sold me on it was that
markets, it's the biggest game in the
world
>> for sure.
>> And like I say, I'm a game player. I
love
>> and a game theorist. Let's let's work
down
>> I I don't like to talk about that
because, you know, because the
>> the real game theorists get angry.
>> Yeah. Well, yes. and and I and I am I am
a real one because that was that was my
field and it's a real field and it's a
real thing
>> but it's been so trivialized when some
talking head will come on well let's
look at the game theory of this and you
just want to just you know shoot
yourself when somebody does this. So, so
the other part of your research, the
other part of your academic focus was on
narrative theory. And so let's talk
about how did that focus develop and and
we'll talk a little later about what you
do today at Perciant with um uh the
narrative machine. But
>> believe it or not, believe it or not, it
all ties together.
>> I I doesn't don't doubt that for a
second. and and it's
>> what what initially led you down that
rabbit hole
>> when we think about kind of who's been
an influence on you in in your life had
a very influential uh undergrad
professor in political science
and then I had a very influential
graduate advisor again they don't call
it political science in up at up at
Harvard they call it government or
something similar to that
>> but but it's political science and and
the reason I say they were influential
is that they really got me focused on
the science side of political science.
>> And
that science side,
yes, it's kind of some of the typical
terrible stuff you see in all social
sciences like economics where you you've
got to learn how to deal with structured
data, right? and and there was there was
a lot to learn and I it's it's worth
talking about because I see the same
mistakes being made over and over again
uh by people in our business who want to
try to you know apply math to data and
and there are some real pitfalls and
some some real intellectual capital I
think that you can achieve within
academia that you can then bring in and
apply to the the investment world.
>> Well, we've certainly seen amongst the
quants a very
successful application of math theory to
data. The in fact some of the best
performing hedge funds are
quantitatively driven. That's not where
you're going.
>> Well, it's it's part of where I'm going.
Right. So, so there there there's a
transition in all of
all of the sciences honestly, but
certainly the the social sciences where
where yes, you start with
numbers, structured numbers, right? Uh
price over time, you know, vol things
you can calculate and measure as those
numbers. But what was clear immediately
in politics and I think has become
increasingly clear in the world of
investing is that it's not just the
numbers that you get on your Bloomberg
terminal. It's also the words and the
stories and the narratives that are told
to us.
Politicians have known this forever,
right? So the story of politics is the
story of people suggesting laws or
policies and then having to present it
in a way that gets them elected or keeps
them in power or whatever that is. So
there's always been a focus, I'll say
more of a focus in political science
than in economics with words.
Economics is almost seen as a as a
sideline, right? it it's somehow lesser
than the numbers.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. So what
what I was kind of early on was applying
the same
techniques
that we have for understanding
matrices and uh structured data but
applying it to unstructured data which
you know full circle this is at the
heart of all of the generative AI and
the the AI that we have today you're way
ahead of me now with generative eye.
We'll circle back to that.
>> But it's all the the math has not
changed, right,
>> in 35 years since I started working with
network math around unstructured data. I
mean, we we didn't call it natural
language processing back then and we
didn't call it, you know, large language
modeling, but that's exactly what we
were doing. So what was what was the
moment or the catalyst for you to say,
"Hey, I'm working in all these other
areas, but the narratives continue to
pop up over and over again on all sorts
of different data sets." And I think in
the financial markets, I can use a a
novel approach to identifying narratives
and anticipate where the market's going.
What what led to that sort of in
insight?
>> Not the not the great recession, right?
But the aftermath,
>> meaning the 2010s following the great
financial crisis
>> starting in in in 2009 and the recovery
that we had out of 2009.
>> Uhhuh. and in particular when
Ben Berni and the Federal Reserve move
towards a very
explicit effort to use their words to
impact markets.
>> So, let's talk a little bit about that
because I have some really specific
memories of the low of the the runup
afterwards. Um, all the noise that was
going on.
um
uh some of the phrases that have come
out of that era like financial
repression and other such things are
just the tip of the narrative iceberg.
So, so walk us through your uh insight.
It's 2009. Yep. The market bottomed
really kind of a vbottom and took off
from that what was that March 9th, March
7th, something like that 09
>> and there was no turning back.
What were you seeing? How were you
integrating that into a concept of let's
identify narratives in order to
anticipate market moves? Well, so I was
co-founded a a long short fund inside of
a a larger asset manager going back in
'05. And 05, 06, 07, we did well. Um,
like everyone else did well. And then in
' 08, we did great.
>> Really?
>> In 08, we did
>> 08, I think, want to say S&P down 37%.
>> Yeah, we were up 20 something net.
Anything in the green, not in the red,
is
>> amazing. Now, I will tell you, and we
can come back to this like the real
question you should ask is that given
what we believed, why wasn't why weren't
we up 40%. That that's actually that
that's actually a question you can ask,
but
>> I I'm I'm going to say a 47%
relative price swing I I'll take.
>> Had a had a had a great year in '08. And
and
>> did that continue in '09?
>> Flatlined.
>> All right.
>> From '09. So from March of '09, so we
did well in
>> January, February in the first quarter,
right?
>> The rest from from March of '09,
>> our returns flatlined.
>> So we never we never lost money for our
clients and our funds.
>> But you didn't catch that recovery. That
>> did not catch the recovery. Absolutely
did not. And
the the recovery was interesting, right?
You're you're right. There was a V, but
there were there were starts and stops
to it. So, the the big move up from the
bottom in late March going into April,
it's like, all right, that actually we
caught a little bit of that and that
that made sense.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Right. There was a second leg to the
rally. Um,
>> oh, April, May, and then in June. In
June, it was a ferocious rally.
>> Ferocious is the right word,
>> but June in particular was a classic
crap rally,
>> right? It was a low quality, lowquality
stuff, right? The the
>> end of March going into April rally, it
was all right. This makes sense, right?
We bottomed Feds. The June rally, no.
No, it was we didn't we didn't touch any
of Oh,
>> that's that's fascinating.
>> Go back go back and look at it, right?
And let me tell you,
>> I don't just so you know, I I have a
vivid recollection of chatting with Jim
Biano about this and we were both
bullish, but for completely different
reasons. To me, anytime US equity
markets are cut in half, I'm a buyer.
And people say 1929, I'm like, great.
You got to go back a century to find the
exception that proves the rule. But um
Jim was early on in the Tina trade. Hey,
the Fed has made everything cash, trash,
bonds are they're forcing you into
equities, which is what led my post,
which everybody stole the line. This is
the most hated bull market in history.
Yeah.
>> And I I wrote that up. I sent that out
and I heard everybody borrow that.
>> But I'm curious as to where the June
rally took you. Well, this and this is
where I'm going about the role of
forward guidance in Jim Biano's point
about
>> because what the Fed did
wasn't just
its um policies around
interest rates, you know, they took them
to zero and that's where we stayed.
>> Started buying mortgage backs and QE
>> did balance balance sheet operations,
right? Right. Quantitative easing
>> actual, you know, actually. And I look,
I I think QE won. I think it saved the
world. This is what
>> And what was that? A trillion dollars,
something. Yeah. Something
>> 800 billion something like 800 billion.
>> Unthinkable number.
>> So I I think that so those were specific
actions he took, but but even if you
people often say things when they're
leaving office. So So Bernanki's last
speech, his validtory address,
>> right? More honest than intended,
>> much more so. And you see this all the
time, right? George Washington leaving
office
>> Eisenhower.
>> Yeah, that's a big
>> I mean when when when
freaking Eisenhower warns you against
the defense industrial complex,
[laughter] you know, you might you might
I'm just saying
>> general like to you.
>> That's right. General [laughter] like to
me. What Bernanki said when he's leaving
his terms of office, he said, "Look,
we had we had two toolkits.
One was kind of traditional stuff,
interest rates down to zero. At the
time, we didn't know we could have
negative interest rates, so you know,
that's where we were.
>> Second were the balance sheet
operations, largecale asset purchases,
QE,
>> quantitative easing. We said, you know,
QE1 was great. Did what we hoped it
would do. QE2, eh, operation twist, QE3,
this is Berneni saying, mind you, he
says,
>> actually think that might have been a
little counterproductive. Huh? They
said, "But we had another
toolkit
and that was our communication policy.
That was forward guidance
>> that we started using our words not to
communicate to the market what we
actually felt. We started using our
words and coordinating our words
to change the market, to change market
behavior. This is what I mean about
making a conscious effort to tell a
story.
And it it's not that it was necessarily
lying, but they they were using their
words and choosing their words for
effect
>> to shape perception of their underlying
>> market to to shape market behavior. And
he said that worked better than we had
any hope that it could.
And that's where we are now. So, so for
the youngans listening, I have to point
out and you and I are old enough to
remember back in the days where there
were no minutes released there. There
wasn't an announcement, forget a press
conference, you had to be watching the
bond market to figure out what the Fed
just did. Like today, there's we're
holding the having this conversation.
There was a Fed the October meeting, a
quarter point rate cut, a conversation
about all sorts of stuff. I really
didn't pay a lot of attention to it. Um,
uh, lack of clarity, no data, blah blah
blah. Um,
>> worse than that, Greenspan would be
intentionally
vague and obtuse.
>> If you understood what I said, then then
you misunders you misinterpreted it,
right? If you think you don't understand
what I'm saying,
>> you know who led the committee to make
all that change? Janet Yellen
>> when she was vice chair. Yep.
>> Back back in during the financial
crisis.
>> Yeah. So, this was it was a concerted
effort.
>> Bernani Yellen to this is when they also
started going putting all the Fed
governors on a common calendar,
>> right?
>> And when they started and assigning the
Fed, okay, you're going to speak this
day, you're going to speak that day.
That's when all this started. It was an
intentional effort.
>> And again, this is something that
politicians have known forever, right?
Politicians craft the message and use
their words.
>> So I I knew the the tools to try to
understand this. Mhm.
>> But what I wasn't prepared for was how,
and neither was Bernanki, was how
powerful this would become to the point
where today it's not just central
bankers using their words as their main
policy toolkit, but it's every CEO. It's
every CEO now. I mean, you go on this
network or one of the other networks,
and what makes for a good CEO is can you
tell the story? Mhm.
>> Can you tell the narrative of your
company to get a multiple? Right?
Because because a multiple is a
narrative. A multiple is a story.
>> Well, stories.
>> Look at some of the most successful CEOs
throughout history. Uh I would throw
Jack Welsh into that pile because he was
a fabulous fabulist. Yeah. He was a
fabulous fabulist because the stories he
told were great. right up until the
point where we found out that he was
running a a hedge fund with G Capital
and they magically always beat by a
penny.
>> So I remember vividly when GE was coming
to our shop
u
what they wanted was a fin a financial
multiple.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Right. So they were making they they
wanted
>> even though they're an old world
industrial
>> even though they're an industrial this
that this was they wanted to tell a
story
that they should be seen as and get the
multiple of financial. That's what GE
was all about in those years leading up
to the the the GFC. So
my my poster child for this is is Mark
Beni off
>> at Salesforce
>> because he's pro you often see this with
people who come out of sales like like
Mark did
>> but the way
>> it's all about storytelling
>> it's all about storytelling and
>> what isn't that true for go through the
great see look
>> Steve Jobs Reed Hastings uh Larry
Ellison at Oracle to some degree. Uh
Steve Balmer at Microsoft, who wasn't a
great CEO, but he was a great
cheerleader and a great storyteller.
>> Great storyteller.
What all of those companies have in
common is that they're great
storytellers, and those are trillion
dollar companies today, right? What I
would say to you is that you don't
remember or hear about the companies
that did not have CEOs who are great
storytellers. Well, uh, Ken Lei was a
great storyteller until you found out
that it was all nonsense. And you could
say the same thing about folks like
Bernie Maidoff.
>> There are a lot of stories that get told
that are not
true, right? What? And and I think even
today people think of this word
narrative. They have a porative sense to
it. It's like um
>> Oh, really? That's interesting.
[clears throat] I don't think of it that
for for for sure. That's just your
narrative, man. you know, the big
Labowski, you know, that's that's the
And it's not that a story is a lie.
It's that the story is constructed for
effect.
It's it's not and it's presented to you
as if this is my true and inner
thoughts. But
the construction of the the
intentionality behind these stories,
phenomenal. Ben off for example you know
created the metrics by which he wanted
Salesforce to be judged not metrics of
profitability but metrics of what he
called pro-forma net revenue growth
whatever the hell that means right and
because if you can construct the story
you can construct it in a way that yes I
can beat and raise pretty much every
quarter so
there was there were three I think big
changes that happened to make the role
of narrative overwhelming
as it is today. Whereas before it's
always been there to your point it's
always been there.
>> Today it's overwhelming and and I think
it's it's not just the success that
first central bankers and then CEOs. I
mean Wall Street's the greatest copying
machine. We Wall Street copies what
works.
>> Sure. So when you see that something's
working, oh, they're they're getting a
multiple by telling the story and going
on Kramer, you know, four times a year,
>> it's endless iteration. You're just
constantly tweaking it and if it works,
do more of it and if it doesn't, toss it
out.
>> So it was the the fact that it works to
tell a story and people got good at
telling stories.
It's the growth of 247. I'm going to use
air quotes here. I'm glad we're taping
this. Well, it's media, social media,
news
>> right now.
>> News like news light.
>> That wasn't the case.
>> So, I want to I want to [clears throat]
annotate what you said slightly because
I think CEOs have always been
storytellers, but they were storytellers
to their boards, to their employees, to
their shareholders. always the you're
hitting now on the modern world of 247
media telling a story in a boardroom is
very different than sitting in a TV
studio and talking about hey here's why
our new chip is going to catch up to
Nvidia and it's the greatest thing ever.
>> Y
>> that's a different skill set.
>> It it changes the time horizon. It is a
very different skill set because you're
not telling the story of oh I'm getting
another you know turn of leverage in our
operations or you know our capacity
utilization in this factory went up by
5% which are the kind of stories you
would tell uh even on earnings call or
certainly to a board. Now, this is the
story where
>> you got a segment. You got se you've got
a segment. You're going on Kramer. You
got to get him to say bye bye bye. You
got at most four minutes. Right. Right.
How are you going to tell that story
that sings
>> to that audience?
>> Enormous change. Change structural
change in our media both quote unquote
news media but also financial news
media. Mhm.
>> The Wall Street Journal today is a 247
news financial news organization, right?
The New York Times, Bloomberg, the
Washington Post, they all have websites
that get updated around the clock.
>> And here's the thing, there's not enough
hard news to fill the time or to fill
the space. So, what takes the space?
Opinion. Story.
>> You were story takes the place of
>> You were channeling Michael Kiteon from
25 years ago. Most of what you see in
the media is speculation, opinion, and
theory, not news.
>> I I've written so much about Kiteon and
his that I know that's why I threw that
back to you.
>> He says he he was he was so far ahead,
>> a quarter century ahead of what of what
took place.
>> And there's a third piece though.
>> Give us the third piece before we go to
our next segment.
>> Third piece has changed everything is
our smartphones
>> that you're you're walking around with.
not only a studio but uh a dopamine
device that you're constantly
>> it's my dopamine machine and I we do it
to ourselves. It's not that someone
forces us to hear these stories over and
over again. We do it to ourselves. I
mean I get a little nervous if I you
know where's my phone? Where's my phone?
I
>> I get a little nervous.
>> And it's a it's it is absolutely a
neurotransmitter addiction.
Uh I think it's so important to keep
that from our kids but that's a whole
another
>> there's a whole depression situation
with teenagers today and it all traces
back to the phone and social media.
>> These are three I think real secular
changes we've had. Um markets become
this political utility. Mhm.
>> Uh the success of
constructing a story,
structural changes in social media and
the devices that we insist on carrying
with our ourselves all the time.
>> Huh. Absolutely fascinating. It's really
more than market narratives. It's
politics. It's economics. It's markets.
You cover a whole lot of stuff
>> 100%. So what we're able to do today and
this is the crazy change in the world
back from when I was
doing this on microfich back in
>> 1980s.
>> Yeah. Exa exactly.
We get we have access to everything
that's published publicly in the world.
>> I mean there are a couple of big data
aggregators. Dow Jones one, Lexus Nexus
another.
everything that gets published in the
world, all these languages, it's
available to you and it's it's not
cheap, but it's not crazy expensive like
it used to be and it's always getting
cheaper. So, we're able to take
everything in the world that gets
published, all the newspapers, all the
websites, all the transcripts,
everything that's published publicly, we
can pull in and then we can process it.
process it with really it's the same
math that I was using 30 years ago.
Nobody's invented cold fusion here.
>> But the software tools are faster,
stronger, better
>> and infinite. So the the the
calculations here are not particularly
complicated,
but you have to do them at enormous
scale.
>> It's it's a ton of volume. So I mean
it's crazy the the just the the scale of
the number
>> pabytes terabytes just crazy. I mean,
yeah. In the last couple of months,
we've processed over 200 billion tokens.
Billion.
>> And a token is how much?
>> A a token is like a word or a phrase.
>> And so that's the kind of the unit you
talk about when you're putting through
when you're putting something through a
linguistic calculator. So,
>> which is which is what all of the the
>> LLM
>> all the LLMs are. They're linguistic
calculators. And so, you know, we've
processed, you know, several hundred
billion tokens.
Again, it's not complex, but it is at
scale. And what we're doing with that is
we're reading the world's news
>> to understand the world's stories and
narratives. And you're right, it's it's
much bigger than or it's much more
focused. we have much higher resolution
than just saying, "Oh, I'm bullish on
financials." I mean, that's a that's a
narrative, sure, right?
>> But there are 20 different variations of
that. You're you're bullish on
financials. Why?
>> So, wait, let me let me
>> track all those. We can track all those
stories and how they wax and wayne over
time.
>> So, let me roll back to I want you to
explain what Persian is. Who are the
clients? I don't mean names but no what
type of of clients do you have and and
what do they do with Persian's output?
>> So we started Persant in 2018. Uh my
partner from we were at a asset manager
spun out there to take the the
technology that I've been working on for
years uh and really been writing about
with epsilon theory. So we started that
in 2018 to do the the basic research
into processing enormous amounts of
financial news data and to track the
stories
and how they rise and fall and wax and
wayne over time. So that that was that
was the story that was the goal. I love
that description because
there are a lot of trades going on where
the storyline changes on a regular
basis. Probably the mac daddy of that is
crypto. First it's hey, you know,
there's fiat currency. This is outside
of the system. It's DeFi. Then it's a
hedge for deflation. Then it's a hedge
for inflation. Now it's scarcity
>> and digital gold, right?
>> Digital gold. It's it's there are no
fundamentals, right, with with with
crypto? And I people will say there are,
but there aren't, right? It's it's
driven by the waxing and waning of
stories.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And does do they find purchase? Do they
or do they kind of people get tired of
them? Well, they got tired of the DeFi
story and then once JP Morgan and Black
Rockck started creating like the IBIT is
the fastest ETF to hundred billion
dollars. And so the old story of DeFi is
gone and the new story is oh no this is
an asset class that Wall Street's
embracing that's why you have to own it.
That story that story was in and very
that was a very similar story by the way
or a transition in story from physical
gold to GLD
>> when that ETF came out, right? Which
>> is a very similar pattern
>> because once it became a Wall Street a
table at the Wall Street casino,
>> right,
>> then
it takes on a different meaning
specific around gold. Gold changed from
being okay something that you bury in
your backyard or you have in your vault,
you know, along with ammo and seeds for
when the the hard times come.
>> Bottled water's ready to eat, gold and
lead.
>> It becomes a security and its meaning
changes from
that, you know, apocalyptic bottled
water thing,
>> right? And the meaning of gold today is
as an insurance policy, a security
against central bank error
>> or government error. That's the meaning
of gold today. And
>> is that the dominant narrative that
you're identifying as gold rallied over
through 4,000?
>> Abs. Absolutely. So I mean we've really
been able to track that one in
specifically.
>> So here's the really big here's the
milliondoll or trillion dollar question.
How do you identify a narrative
>> and say, "Oh, gold is going to double
from here based on this narrative or or
are we not there yet?"
>> No, you you identify the narratives
because the narrative the stories don't
ever change.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Right. So the the story that
leave gold aside for a while. Think
about um we're talking about you're
bullish on company XYZ because
>> there are about I don't know depending
on how again how finely you want to
resolve that.
>> There are only about a dozen stories for
why you're bullish on something.
>> Right? It can be management change,
topline growth opportunity,
consolidation in the industry,
>> upcoming catalyst,
>> catalyst. So, so every catalyst story,
>> new product,
>> FDA is going to approve the new new
drug, new molecule.
>> So that story,
>> you just change the name, that's the
same story that's repeated over and over
again about any pharma or or or biotech
company.
The stories
we think that they are amorphous and um
variable. The fact is that the the core
of the story, what we call the semantic
signature,
>> the meaning of a story, they're
amazingly
constant over time. So what we're
looking for is for and it's it can be
dormant for a long time but what you
want to know is when that story starts
picking up again when
someone starts playing that story when
it appears on Kramer and starts
happening in the financial press that's
the stuff we can pick up with real
precision. So it's both the stories that
are starting to fade.
>> Uhhuh.
>> But but the I think the really
interesting stories are the stories that
have been dormant for a long time and
they start picking up again.
>> You are reminding me of Campbell's uh
hero's journey that there's only so many
>> my hero right there are only so many
stories right in the in in the world and
that that's a now
>> I like to talk about um in Hollywood
>> uh
>> famously there are only like five
scripts. That's right.
>> Right. Uh Toltoy is supposedly Toltoy.
He said there are only two stories that
a man goes on a journey or a stranger
comes to town. Those are the only two
stories in the world. And
>> not quite but he's
>> not quite but you're on the right track.
>> Right. Right.
>> The point is there's a finite number of
stories. You can drill down. So you can
get a couple of dozen about any sector
you want to talk about or like
>> but it's it's a finite number.
And so what we do and what I think is
really interesting is to track that
finite number of stories. And you're
right, it's not just around markets. We
track several thousand of these stories
today.
>> How so? Let's let's delve into that. So
So how do you You have this massive
database. You're sucking in every um
news feed
uh magazine, newspaper, anything that
you could quantify and and run into a
linguistics model. What's the process
for analyzing this? How do you use
artificial intelligence to to go through
this? And how do you make sense out of
that heap of how do you find signal
amidst all that noise?
The crucial thing is you can't just ask
AI an open-ended question say what are
the narratives in this comp for this
company or for this sector. Don't do
that. Right? And this is a mistake that
people make all the time. They ask
open-ended questions of chat GPT or or
whoever. The problem is chat GPT will
give you an answer.
>> Just not a good one.
>> Not a good one. It'll hallucinate a lot.
Yeah. Right. It'll go out. it'll find
its own data. The the secret to to using
AI successfully is to take this magic
genie, because it's a magic genie,
>> and you stuff it into that bottle,
right? You do not let it out. You
constrain it dramatically. You don't let
it go out and find data. You give it the
data. Crucial thing, you don't allow it
to think.
You tell it how to think. So the the
most important step that we do is we
don't ask AI what are the narratives
that you look at we tell it this is
human direction you have to have human
control
>> so I'm hearing data set is uh controlled
by you as well as
>> the thinking the semantics
>> yes and it's more than prompt right so
the it it includes prompt but the the
phrase that's used in this world is
called not prompting engineering, but
context engineering.
>> Okay, that makes sense.
>> You want to you want to control
everything
around the AI because you want to limit
it to being that linguistic calculator.
You want it to be your operating system.
>> That's really the way the thing and and
if you do that, then it will give you
the same answer twice for the same
inputs in the same question. That's the
crucial thing for this to be true for
for it to be consistent and for it to be
real signal.
>> So this is a human-directed process. You
can't ask AI an open-ended question. You
have to control all the inputs. You have
to control the output. Meaning you judge
it. You run it back through a different
AI system to say how' they do they go
off the rails here. But the most
important thing is you have to give it
the scaffolding. You have to give it the
the skeleton. You have to tell it these
are the thoughts you are allowed to
think about and those are the those are
the the signatures.
>> I I've kind of learned I have to avoid
asking questions that have a a a human
emotional
subtext like tell me what was most
surprising about this. It doesn't know
what a surprise is. Tell me what was
most interesting about this.
>> Uh it does it's not able to do that. You
really have to treat it like it's a dumb
machine.
>> Well, that's right. This why I mean you
treat it you need to treat it as an
operating system.
>> Mhm.
>> You need to constrain every bit about
it, particularly in how you allow it to
think because it wants to please you so
badly.
>> It does. So if you ask it what's
interesting, it will look back at its
history of communication with you and
it'll think, "What will Barry find
interesting?"
>> And it will give that answer to you. And
if he can't find it easily, it'll make
it up. It'll make up an answer that you
will find interesting.
>> I I find when I I I try and prompt um
hey, tell me about Ben Hunt's background
and give me the timeline of his career
that it's good at. Hey, what was Ben
Hunt really good at? It has no it's got
no idea.
>> Exactly. So what what you're able to do
if you're able to again put the genie in
the bottle,
>> tell it how to think about a problem is
you're able to identify and this does go
back to the work from 35 years ago. The
type of stories we tell that we humans
tell that about stocks or politics,
we tell two types of stories. We tell
descriptive stories. Mhm.
>> Oh, the, you know, the Fed cut
rates by 25 basis points today. A
descriptive story. But, and we can also
tell a description. So, the, you know,
u,
>> it's the because clause because we're
seeing slowing, increasing layoffs, and
slowing consumer demand.
>> And, and that's high resolution and dis
and very descriptive, right? the the
Powell was surprisingly hawkish today.
>> Um and he was
that's a description.
>> There's another type of story we tell
Barry and that's prescriptive.
>> It's meaning the Fed should be hawkish.
The Fed should cut by 25 basis points.
Those are the stories that are
indicative of an effort being made to
move public opinion in a certain
direction.
>> Mhm.
>> That's like the forward guidance that
the Fed still does, right? Using their
words for effect. They're using words to
nudge you at how you should think about
the world, how to think about the world.
So the crucial thing when we're doing
these when we're asking the AI to here's
here's all the text in the world. Here
are the stories that we want you to
identify. We can also boil that down
into
identify the stories that are
trying to tell the reader how they
should think or how policy should go.
that we find
has a lot of predictive capability to
it.
>> So, you're in the business of analyzing
the world's narratives every day. How is
that even possible? It seems like that
is an impossible
crazy, right?
>> And and it used to be it used to be
crazy. I I mean Barry I I really do
remember my in the academic days I would
literally hire grad students and give
them a cup of dimes so they go down to
the microfich machine.
>> I remember those machines. You
>> remember those machines? Remember those
machines? I would code handcode the or
hand record the coded data. I would type
it into
uh remote access for a digital equipment
miniframe and the next day, you know,
something would churn out for me. Right?
Today it's they say we're we're
processing hundreds of billions of
tokens. We get millions of documents
overnight like that and we have infinite
computing resources available to us.
>> Is there anything you can't access that
you wish you had access to?
any data source.
>> So, one of the things that's happened on
Wall Street is that the banks and the
sell side have become very jealous of
their publications
>> because they tend to think and they're
wrong that they're good at it, right?
They're that they're good at analysis.
>> Of course, I don't think they are.
>> Well, let let's just say some are better
than others. Some are better than
others, but but none of them are really
I
if if they were if there was I'll call
it kind of significant alpha there, they
wouldn't be
>> a bank.
>> They'd be a hedge fund.
>> Yeah. They wouldn't be a on the on the
sell side. Now, so I'm interested in
reading the sellside research not
because I think there's some nugget of
truth in there, but because I want to
see what they're all talking about,
>> right? It's reflective of uh if not a
consensus certainly a a popular set of
ideas
>> and and this is a crucial thing to talk
about what we do. I don't know what the
truth is,
>> right?
>> I have no idea.
>> Does it matter?
>> And I don't think it matters. I I want
to provide this information to people
who do have a view on the truth. Let's
say you're a you're a value investor,
right? You're running a fund. You've got
your views. You've done all your
homework. You've done your research.
>> You've got a good back test.
>> Yeah. You Yeah. You've got So, I'd say
I've got here are the companies where I
think I've identified something special,
something that's valuable that the
market does not recognize.
>> And so, I want to buy it and then I'm
just going to wait. I got to wait until
one day the market realizes the market
comes to their senses and says, "Oh,
wow. that should trade at a higher
multiple or a higher price because that
special thing that you saw that source
of value the rest of the world comes to
see that. Well,
what I can think I can show you is when
the rest of the world starts to wake up
to whatever it is you're looking for.
>> So, you're catching the early lift off
the bottom.
>> That's the goal. when the when when a
value investment only works when the
market recognizes it and we are tracking
when something like that gets discovered
by the market. So before Nvidia is five
trillion, when it when it starts ramping
up to 500 billion, hey, something's
going on here.
>> What I found in my
experience as an investor is that you
make the most money on a trade during
what I call as the discovery phase of a
trade. When the rest of the world wakes
up to something that you had noticed and
identified before, that's when the money
is made. Once it gets out there,
>> then it's reflect then the the market be
is eventually efficient.
>> It's a different it's a different risk
and reward profile. Let me let me put it
that way. Yeah, you you you get
>> you get a lot more ups and downs post
that discovery phase
>> than you do when you're enjoying the
discovery phase. It's a lot harder once
you have now you may say, "Oh, but
there's this other catalyst." And then
say, "Well,
>> but that discovery phase is um I'm going
to quote Doug Cass. That's the um
there's a phrase he uses uh it's like a
a contrarian perspective uh a variant
perspective where perspective
>> you have some insight that is not widely
held
>> right
>> and the market
>> being mostly kind of sort of eventually
efficient if there's uh truth or at
least a good story in your variant
perspective
is a story
>> all it takes is a story
>> it's got to be a good story though Yeah,
it's got to be a well, I'll call it it's
got to be a compelling story. Right.
>> Right. And that's that's why you're
looking for a CEO who can tell that
compelling story. You're looking for the
ability to tell a compelling story
because that is what gives you a
multiple.
>> Multiple is story.
>> So, let me ask you um a few more
questions um on on Persant before we go
into a few other areas. So, first you
you've been doing this for seven years.
What are you doing today that was
unimaginable
four, five, six, seven years ago?
>> I I tell you something that was
unimaginable really two years ago.
That's amazing.
>> And that is the AI. So, what we were
doing in our early stage, we were
basically doing small language models.
We were making the language models
essentially by hand.
>> Uhhuh. Uh, and you know, we did our
first models and our first versions of
this and we licensed it to some big
banks. And here's the problem, Barry. We
we had constructed a net and it was a
pretty good net. I mean, when we would
dip it into a data stream, we'd catch a
fish, meaning a signal.
>> And the signal, oh, that that signal
works, you know, good good hit on the
the signal that we put up. The problem
was we were missing too many damn fish,
>> right?
>> Our our net was too small. And we'd say,
"Oh, we got this one." And then we'd
look back at whatever it was we were
designing the model for and say, "Well,
how did we miss all these other fish?"
And the answer was the small language
model we were constructing.
It's incredibly complex if you're
building these models without the
probabilistic approach that modern LLMs
allow you to take.
>> Right? So this is the whole notion of
embedding. So that there are a million
ways to say I'm bullish about the
management change at company XYZ.
>> There are million ways you can say that.
And if you're in the business as we were
of kind of handcrafting, let's write
down all the ways you can say that.
>> Oh, really?
>> You miss a lot. You've made a small net
and what you're trying to to to
>> and a and a small data set
>> and it's a pretty small data set. So we
we rebuilt all of our software again
using AI as an operating system context
engineering control how you dole out the
text data how you test it how you allow
it to think and we thought all right you
know what we're building a bigger net I
bet we see five maybe even sixx
improvement in our signal cache
>> and what did you end up with
>> over a 100x.
>> That's unbelievable.
>> Over 100x. It's over and now it's we've
had a multiple of that again. It's it's
it is hard to describe and in the in the
the expansion of the net is in so many
different directions. Everything we were
doing before was just English language,
>> right?
>> So now you're speaking global and how
many languages are you pulling into the
>> anything that an AI has been trained on?
>> Uhhuh. We read it and we can so we can
>> Is that 40 languages? Is that like how
many languages?
>> Well, there only you know there are
about a dozen languages that are useful
in markets.
>> So it'll be Japanese, Chinese, a variety
of European languages.
>> So we can we can tell
>> Indian
>> here's the here's a story here the story
about uh Chinese domestic markets.
There's a western story, western
narratives,
>> and there's a domestic Chinese story
>> and the domestic Chinese story
>> which is very different.
>> Often it's very different. So we were
able for example picking up we were able
to pick up way before it it it got
picked up in western press.
The demand for luxury goods in China
went off a cliff
>> cliff.
>> Yeah.
>> In last November. Listen, you can't go
from a double digit GDP to like low to
mid single digits and not have it effect
especially in a country like that.
>> Well, and and but but it's interesting,
right? Because because they've had, you
know, ups and downs on business cycle
before, but this is the first time where
>> you saw consumer behavior that really
was kind of similar to what you might
find in a western consumer behavior.
Point being, you didn't hear that from
LVMH or the Macau Gaming guys until
>> February and we were picking that up in
in in November from the domestic Chinese
media.
>> So So that raises a a really interesting
question. You know, at the end of the
day, clients want to be able to make
money on your research.
>> How are people putting this to work? How
how does what you're building help your
clients generate alpha? What we think
we've discovered is a an entirely new
source of data and what we're confident
is that we've built the systems that are
very different from what you see with
this sort of analytics that are out
there from anyone else. Right? So, this
is not sentiment,
>> right? We're not tracking or using mean
words or nice words.
>> By the way, that was a big thing. I
don't know is that 10 years ago. We're
we're scanning uh Twitter to identify
investor sentiment.
>> Oh my god. I I mean, but I was just
looking today and not to pick on
Bloomberg, but you know, it was their
live coverage of the Fed
uh statement,
>> right?
>> They were analyzing the sentences in the
Fed statement for hawkish and dovish
sentiment.
>> How it changed from the last meeting
>> and and so
>> so so you're saying there's not a whole
lot of signal there.
>> I want to be careful with what I say,
right? which is that
uh there are a number of I'll call them
highfrequency stat orb guys
>> where if it's important for you to note
the difference in word choice on a
millisecond level
>> I think there I think you can get
something out of that I do
>> and so there are firms that can do that
very well that's not our game right this
is not the
what we're trying to to identify is Not
just sentiment, not just word choice.
This is not Google trends and how many
times did they mention AI in the
earnings report, right? There's we're
able to track the actual stories that
drive behavior.
>> So that that's the next question and and
I'm going to give Dave Nod credit for
asking this. Does every narrative turn
into a decision? How do you know when
something is merely noisy versus where
there's a significant tradable signal?
>> I don't. Right. So, this is my goal is
not to
oh, you know, do the trades. My goal is
Mr. Hedge fund guy, Mr. Asset allocator,
you've got to, you know, China, right?
You know your companies, you know your
commodities. Here is data that
I think you'll find useful. The efficacy
of it though is up to you. I don't know
what you would what what you want to do
with it. I want to sell the picks and
shovels honestly for this vast new data
set that we all know is important but we
haven't been able to measure it in a
very predictive way before.
>> So let's talk about a few things related
to
>> Can I say one more thing? Sure. And it's
not just about using this for
investment. So we have a product for
financial advisors.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Right. Which is
your client's coming in. You've got a
portfolio.
You need to be able to say what what is
what is my client what what are they
worried about? What are they nervous
about? What are they hopeful for? What
are the stories they're reading?
>> And you're pulling this out of the flow
of media. And we can tell you exactly
for for the portfolio you've got for
that client. Here's what they're going
to be asking about, worried about, and
here are the answers you can give them
to show this is when has happened before
when this story has come up. Stay the
course. It's going to be fine. This is
the sort of stuff we can do for
financial advisors.
>> Huh, that's really interesting. I would
I would love to see some of that.
>> It's not just in markets, Barry. I got
to tell you, the
>> policy makers, corporate executives,
bankers. So we did a you know we did
before
in the runup to the Russian invasion of
Ukraine.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And we published this on epsilon theory
and this is my old academic work the
book getting to war.
>> Before a country starts a war they
mobilize public opinion
>> right
>> and so we were looking at domestic
Russian media looking and say friends
this isn't going to be a limited thing.
>> This is happening. this is happening and
it's going to be a full-scale invasion
>> because that was the messaging in
domestic Russian media to the Russian
people.
>> Wow.
>> So
brands, right? So you you know we're
working with some some It sounds crazy,
but pro sports teams
>> you want to tell a story to
>> your fan base.
>> Build a stadium.
>> Sell some tickets.
>> Sell some tickets. Build a stadium.
Give me some examples of people who have
told good stories and how did that work
for them? How can we do the same thing?
So once you start looking at
storytelling,
>> if Jeff Bezos was a subscriber to this
back when he was trying to build a
taxfunded
HQ on the Hudson, um, had he had your
data and you were crunching all the New
York City uh, news stories about this,
might you have been able to give him
advice that
>> he suffered such a backlash
>> because you know what we have today? We
have polls,
>> right? Right. because terrible which are
terrible which are mostly terrible now
you know and and I love the poly market
stuff and other things where you try to
get as many people as possible to put
money on something
>> right so you know when you ask a person
a question you're asking them hey what
do you think you think and what do you
think you're going to do in the future
when we know people are terrible at both
of those things
>> terrible at both of those things
>> but if you put a little money on it all
right maybe they might be a little more
circumspect
>> that that that help that helps a ton so
so in places where you can have them
make a bet. I think that improves the
kind of information you can get. It
still lends itself to a lot of
manipulation and a lot of
>> they're not issues around it.
>> Poly markets and cash and all those
things. It it's not the bond market.
It's not hundred something trillion
dollars. It's a couple of bucks on each
of these. And sometimes a million
dollars moves a half a million dollars
can move a market.
>> But for a lot of things, let's say
you're polling for a political
candidate, right? You can't ask them to
put money down on something, [laughter]
right? You but but you really want to
know did these these policies that my
candidate is thinking about taking on is
that popular? Does it resonate? Is it a
compelling story? We can absolutely see
if that is true by looking at local
media, local social media, all of that.
So, it's it's pretty wild. I mean, once
you start looking at how important
stories are and once you've got a tool
where you can actually measure them and
visualize them, it's like it's like I
feel like it was like when they invented
whoever was loven Hook or whoever
invented the microscope
>> when you're actually to see something
that we all know is there.
>> Well, now we do back then, right? Like
remember germ theory took what a century
to catch on.
>> It took a century and it takes it takes
seeing it, right? It takes the
instrument to actually measure it before
you actually believe in it.
>> And so I feel like that's kind of where
we are right now. It's these early days,
but to actually see and measure the
storytelling at this level of
resolution, this magnification is pretty
freaking cool.
>> So, so we're having this conversation
with market at all-time highs.
>> And you've written about the ravine.
>> Yep.
>> Tell us a little bit about what is the
ravine? How does uh does your data
identify that? Tell us what this means.
>> Well, there's there's there's clearly
been a change in policy regime out of of
Washington and
>> new administration and a radically
different
>> radically different approach
>> even from the first uh Trump presidency
>> even from the the first presidency. And
so what we're able to to measure really
measure is how does that I'll say play
But also what comes
narratives never happen in a vacuum,
>> right?
>> There's always a counter story. For
every bull story, there's a bear story.
Uh and they they they you can almost
kind of see the battlefield of ideas,
the battlefield of stories and how it
emerges. So
my strong sense Barry is that we are
going towards politically in this
country towards
trench warfare uh greater and greater
I'll call it narrative violence
>> uh and it if you look historically how
that plays out in countries it doesn't
it doesn't play out well
>> civil war domestic political violence
things like that uh sadly yes exactly
like that exactly like that so there's
that element and so that's a that's a
sad one you know or a very troubling one
and trying to well how do we navigate
that but even when in in markets and I
alluded to this earlier how capital
markets have become a political utility
>> uh and
the the role of markets in our society
you can really see how that changes is
in the stories we tell ourselves about
the role of markets, what it's there
for. Um, and I
>> end of day options and speculation. What
else is it supposed to be there for?
>> But that but that's kind of what I'm
getting at, Gary. Right. you you can see
an enormous change in the meaning of
markets and it connects with a
yes they'll call it the speculation
layer but it also connects with
financial nealism
yolo
um it it it leads to a very I think u
less attractive future
>> for how we think about money and the
role of markets and the role of
capitalism in this country.
>> So I want to I'm so glad you said that
because I want to take you somewhere.
>> So you write epsilon theory and some of
it is for subscribers, some of it is
public.
>> A lot of it's public. Yeah.
>> One of the things you wrote is
absolutely my favorite item from the
first few months of the Trump
presidency. Uh because I like to talk in
probabilities because I don't know
what's going to happen. Yep. But here's
the best case scenario. Here's the worst
case. Here's all the middle scenarios.
You wrote a piece, the end of PAX
Americana that I thought was the most
cogent, imaginative,
wellthoughtout. Hey, here's the worst
case scenario and we are uh becoming uh
dangerously flirting with this possible
outcome. And I use that as all right, so
here's what I think is high probability,
here's the best case, but if you really
want to think about how this can go off
the rails, check out what Ben wrote. And
so tell us a little bit about how did
Persian
inform the end of Pax Americana because
I I get the sense that domestically that
wasn't really where a lot what how a lot
of people were thinking but I got the
sense from overseas that was a much more
common thought. Tell tell us a little
bit about both the piece and and how the
data uh informed it.
I'll start with the I'll call it the the
international dimension. I want to come
back to the domestic dimension because I
I think we've got some really
interesting data recently to to to
share.
>> It goes back to this again. I I cringe
when I talk about but but it is it is
game theory, right? And all game theory
is is strategic interaction. It's that
the the United States, yes, is the most
powerful player on the world stage, but
every country has some degrees of
freedom and some autonomy in their in
the policies that they that they
implement. This there is not a dominant
strategy, meaning an outcome, an
equilibrium outcome. Again, I hate using
these words, but I'll use them anyway.
All an equilibrium means is it's a
balancing point where both parties let's
call them the United States and a
European country where do they end up
where they all say okay I can live with
this where I can live with this and the
America first set of policies and
there's all these set of policies what
you end up with is
less potential economic growth trade
made
all all of these things. It's just
>> all the things that we enjoyed post
World War II, that realignment that
imbued to our benefit so greatly
>> enormously to our to to our advantage.
>> Advantage
>> enormously to our advantage. It it goes
by the name of soft power and you know
the dollar system, the Bretonwood
system, all of this
>> reserve currency on and on the
>> reserve currency to finance our deficit.
All of this is enormously to our
advantage. And yes, there are free
riders on that system. Yes, there are
costs to that particularly on defense
and some other some other areas. Tariffs
are another area where there's
absolutely free writers on that. So
there's improvement that can be made in
that system for sure. Right?
>> But this is not this is a different
system. This is a different set of rules
of the road and it leads to a different
strategic interaction between between
countries. M
>> so that's what the note was about and
it's it's I'm not trying to predict I'm
just I'm just trying to observe
and which is a great line actually by
George Soros which is you know I'm not
predicting I'm observing which I love
that as a line I'm not and our
technology is not there to try to
predict the future is trying to tell you
what is true in the present today
>> I I'm amazed how many people think they
can forecast theuture future when they
have no idea what's happening right now.
>> I want to I want to now cast is what I
want to do. Not not forecast. I want to
now cast.
>> And that gets to why I wanted to talk
about kind of domestic.
>> So
we started tracking the different
narratives around immigration policy
um early last year and what you saw in
some of the kind of simp
>> this was during the runup to the
election.
>> Yes. Exactly. And what you saw and
really going back because we can take we
take this stuff back for a decade or
more. And what you absolutely saw
up to last October, there's a there was
an event from last October, not the
election, but an event from last
October.
>> You see a steady increase in regardless
of your political affiliation. You know
what? Immigration isn't working for us.
isn't as as Americans saw a steady
increase
starting with the
they're eating the the cats.
>> They're eating the cats. They're eating
their dogs.
>> They're eating the dogs. [laughter]
>> When you say Columbus, when you that
that moment,
>> one of the most surreal moments in
debate history
>> and we see very clearly in our
media data, you know, and this is this
is not mainstream media. This is
everything that we're pulling up.
We've seen an a really significant
decline in the volume and density of oh
my god immigration is a problem. We need
mass deportations. On the contrary,
we've seen an enormous increase again
regardless of political affiliation
including Republicans.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Uh no, immigration is a good thing for
this country.
the stories of America that are
pro-immigrant and immigration. Now, you
would not believe that if you were
looking at the policies that the White
House has implemented during these
first, you know, 10 months of the
administration.
>> So, wait, when did you first notice that
uh regardless of policy, we think
immigration is a net benefit to America?
When did that first start showing up? It
started changing right in October
because it was like [clears throat] a
bridge too far. It was it was like this
is just stupid. This is silly and
stupid.
>> And it's been a steady increase, you
know, and you wouldn't you wouldn't
believe that if you were,
>> you know, immersed in Twitter, but but
>> so this
>> our country is actually quite
>> pro-immigrant.
Um I I know that sounds but
>> we are a nation of immigrants. Here's
here's another data point that's kind of
mind-blowing. We were talking about a
different data point in in the entirety
of the US history. 2025 looks like the
first year where the US population will
decrease.
>> So it's a decrease in legal immigrants,
not not only illegal immigrants, but
legal immigrants. Add that with the
deportations and just people staying
away. Well, this this gets back to the
the the economic picture and from other
So, what what you've had is a clear and
again we we we see this in our data from
other countries. There's a clear effort
to repatriate assets and funds away from
the US.
>> There's been a clear effort
>> outside the US. You see this with
central banks, but also with
>> hence gold, the big gold.
>> Correct.
Treasuries used to be a safe haven
asset,
>> right?
>> No more. That's that's it's it's
>> Do you understand how significant that
charge is that you're making? You're
basically accusing the president of
submarining one of the single greatest
assets America holds.
>> Well, that it's a it is built up to such
an extent, right, that the way I think
of this is an iceberg that is melting,
>> but it is melting. What we do not see we
do not see capital flight,
>> right? We we saw it for like a week in
April and then it quickly reversed.
>> That was it. So there's there there is
there's no capital flight. There there
are no US investors leaving the country.
There were fears and we can track it. If
that starts to happen, we'll see it
immediately. That's not happening.
Repatriation continues to happen
>> slowly, measured, balanced,
>> melting iceberg.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Right. Because there are limits to if
you're a Bermuda reinsurer, I mean,
you're kind of you're you're stuck with
treasuries. I mean, that that you're
>> you could buy some gold to offset it,
but you can't sell a hundred billion
dollars worth of treasuries.
>> You can't you can't. So, it's a melting
iceberg, but we can clearly see that the
dog that's not barking yet and maybe
never will is capital flight. Mhm.
>> What we see in politically, domestically
is that actually, and this was validated
by a Gallup poll they've been doing 20
years, which also showed what we had
saw, started seeing a lot earlier, uh,
where
immigration as a thing is actually
pretty darn popular in the United
States.
>> Yeah, but so are so is restricting
assault rifles, and we can't get any
change on that. That's 75 80% or the
extra
>> I got to tell you I got to tell you that
depends very much in how that question
is asked.
>> Well, that's true for all polling.
>> Well, but this is the benefit of what
I'm talking So so when when we're doing
these semant we call the semantic
signatures. It has nothing to do with
how you're phrasing the question. We're
not doing polling. We're seeing what
people are actually the meaning of what
they're talking about in in media. So,
how does that play out if people are
legitimately saying, "No, immigration is
a good thing for America." Is there an
impact on population and the economy? Is
there an impact on markets? Is there an
impact on policy and politics?
>> I think there's an impact on the
election, the midterms next year.
>> Uh, so we're talking we're talking
literally 12 months from now.
>> Yeah. Because that's how this the stuff
gets c the on the political front
narratives and opinions they get cashed
out in elections. Right. Markets are
different. You you cash stuff out every
day. Right. The markets open every day.
>> The back loop is so rapid with markets.
Ex.
>> Exactly.
Politics is a different story.
>> So,
>> right. It gets cashed out in the
elections.
>> If you were to ask me before this
conversation, what's the most
significant impact on the midterm
elections? There was just a Gallup poll
yesterday. Um GOP questions on the
economy. They were plus 14% two years
ago. They're minus 4% this year.
>> I I saw that
>> and and that's an amazing swing. And I'm
I'm saying to myself, you know, listen,
the uh out of power party usually picks
up, you know, 10 15 seats. You have the
redistricting question which may blunt
that. But if if the most important
question during the election was on the
economy and that's an 18% swing, this is
looking like a pretty substantial shift.
What I'm hearing from you is, hey, this
isn't just about the economy.
>> It's not.
>> So, it's the economy, it's immigration.
What else? What else are you seeing
that's interesting?
>> That's that's that's pretty. Now there
are other aspects though where
the the stories it this is this is
people talking about immigration as a
thing. Now whether now whether that gets
translated into a political party
positioning because I got to tell you
the Democratic party right is enormously
there are no there are no narratives
that are being put forward by the
Democrats that are
powerful or or or popular. So I I I
>> other than the mayoral contest in New
York.
>> Yeah. [laughter] Yeah. Right.
One
>> what I'm saying is that the is that the
many of the policies that are being
presented by this administration are
unpopular, not just with Democrats, but
with Republicans and increasingly so.
Immigration being one of them. I think
economy being another one. tariffs
aren't really popular amongst uh
>> but people perceive that as a tax
increase or or a pressure on small
business
>> government shutdown right so both in
polls and also in this it's it's that
>> because the the question oh well the
Democrats will get blamed well that's
not really true that's not what's
happening
>> u now how that all paid
>> by way listeners should know you're not
a hard you're not a Democrat
>> oh my god no
>> like I know you and your politics and
the stuff you're saying. I I could hear
people shrugging and saying, "Oh, that
Ben Hunt is just a liberal Democrat."
I'm like, "No, no, no. That's not who
Ben is."
>> No, no, it's not. Um,
>> you're just talking about here's what I
see in the data.
>> I'm saying I'm observing.
>> I I'm observing. And I think that a lot
of times if we are like me very online
and on Twitter too much
>> right
>> you you don't see the broader picture of
what is happening on blog posts and
local newspapers and and and everything
else. So I think having the ability to
read everything
>> and track
these stories
that
you know they don't they they like I say
they wax and wayne but they don't they
don't ever go away. The it's it's it's
something we're very excited about to
track the stories of America. Uh, I I'll
give you another one. And this one
actually
I don't know what to do with this. One
of the stories of America is that
America has [snorts]
raised the world's um wealth, right?
that that
>> global standard of living
>> global standard of living that that
America has been this powerful force to
and capitalism and America have been
this powerful force to raise people out
of poverty that's a story that in other
periods of time has
been out has been prominently
talked about
>> very resonant
>> that story is non-existent today
>> well you cut things like HIV a few
million dollars to inoculate all of
Africa from HIV. That's gonna have
repercussions.
>> Well, it's
it's not just that that that has the
concrete those those repercussions that
you're describing. What I'm saying is
that the story that would
support that
it's gone.
>> Is it gone forever as
>> No, that's a point. These things are
never gone. These stories stories have
they never die, right? They they're
they're waiting for a new force to give
them
>> the next version of it. If US is not
seen as a force for raising people out
of poverty around the world, do people
see China as that force?
>> Haven't looked at that. We've been
looking at the the US story, but I but I
I my my personal sense is is that we've
essentially seated the field
>> ced with a C, not an S. particularly in
South Asia and Africa
>> uh
>> to to to China. I I mean that that seems
that seems pretty,
>> you know, pretty clear.
>> This is I'm glad I asked the question
about the ends of Pax Americana because
I I I've just found that piece so
insightful and so useful and I could
keep you here talking about this stuff
[laughter] for hours. But out of
deference and respect for our listeners
time, um I'm going to jump to our
favorite questions that I ask oh sure
all of our qu all of our guests. But
before I do, there's a question that um
I I have to pose to you,
>> which is so you get to see things before
they sort of bubble up into the
mainstream, before they become a well
understood narrative. What's a narrative
that you're just starting to sniff out
that most of the world or most of the
country or most of Wall Street and
finance hasn't seen yet?
>> It's a story that people are talking
about since Tricolor and First Brands
went out,
>> right? The the
>> So, it's the story on on credit.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Story of credit. And
>> I mean, first Brands is legitimate.
It sounds like felonies were happening
there. So, we'll have to see what how
that plays out.
>> Tryolor as as well. But my point is that
every day you have a new bank CEO come
out and say, "No, no, everything's
fine." Right? So, yesterday it was David
Solomon at Goldman Sachs saying, "No,
no, it's fine."
>> Uh, today I was hearing the Brookfield
guy saying, "No, no, it's fine." For
every story,
every interview the guy says it's fine.
You're getting two articles in the FT or
the journal saying ain't fine. So the
>> You think thou doth protest too much? Is
it that
>> I'm I am I all I'm saying is I am
observing I'm not predicting I am
observing the level of volume for
alternative asset managers their
exposure to private credit. This is
problematic. Oh, I'm wondering what's
going to happen when the music stops.
Oh, I think that these this blows back
into the commercial banking system.
Those stories, those narratives are
higher by
an order of magnitude than they've been
at any point in the last 10 years.
>> At any point, including during COVID,
during when you had similar concerns
over, oh my god, private credits
>> was easy to rationalize everything. Hey,
listen. We're all frozen. Just ignore
it. But I this is a story that has legs.
>> Uhhuh.
>> It is growing in a way that I rarely
see. And once a story like this grows,
it doesn't just go away. And it's not
fixed by Bernani saying, "Oh, subprime
is contained."
>> Right. It's immediately what I thought
of as soon as you
>> Absolutely. It does not get fixed by
people saying, "Don't worry, there's no
problem." J
>> Jim Grant said he was right. It was
contained to Earth.
>> The rest of the solar system was fine,
>> which turned out to be a very witty and
clever observation.
>> This story, this worry, this concern
absolutely has legs.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And we're seeing no signs of it easing
off in financial media and press.
>> So the the big question is, is it
systemic or is it the specific?
>> I say I I don't know the truth. I don't
know reality. All I can tell you is
>> we're seeing more of this.
>> Well, we're seeing this is this is the
story.
>> Huh. Really, really interesting. Let's
jump to our favorite questions starting
with who are your mentors who helped
shape your career?
>> That's good. Well, I you I mentioned
that uh the people both in undergrad and
graduate school who turned me on to the
science part of political science.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And in particular uh in graduate school,
Gary King uh who runs the whole social
science research center up there at
Harvard uh and has for a long time now.
He wrote the original really the book on
inference. You hear about inference all
the time
>> of course. So the the notion of
inference taking large data sets and
pulling out
>> Oh, inference. I thought you said
influence.
>> No, no, no.
>> Inference.
>> Uhhuh.
>> So the science of inference, the I
learned that from Gary, you know, 30
years ago. And it's so interesting to
see that come full circle because that's
at the core of, you know, Jensen Wong's
always talking about it and the whole
notion of AI to that inference spend
they talk about. I was there at the
beginning
>> for how you what inference is and why it
is so powerful. Uh that was a huge
influence on me.
>> Let's talk about books. What are you
reading now? What are some of your
favorites?
>> I'm a science fiction guy.
>> Okay. You're talking to another sci-fi
guy. So let's
>> So I I
>> give us something new and something
classic.
>> Well, something classic would be uh
Lucishin and the Threebody Problem. By
the way, the Netflix show on that was
surprisingly watchable.
>> I thought it was excellent. Uh before
that, and you know, I named a company
after him was the Foundation Trilogy,
>> Azimoff.
>> With Azimoff,
>> those books hold up less well, honestly,
and I thought the the series was it had
its moments.
>> I didn't love the series.
>> It was it was so pretty so so to me.
>> Uh current science fiction, um
uh Rebecca, it goes she goes by RF
Kuang. Uh, and she wrote a book called
Babel.
>> Uh, and she's got a new one out. Who
want to be ba?
>> I like Tower of Babel. B-abel. And she's
got a new one out. Catabases, I think it
is. But science fiction dealing with
language and linguistics. I love that
stuff.
>> That sounds like that's right in your
your sweet spot. Uh, let's talk about
streaming. What are you watching or
listening uh today? Podcast or Netflix
or whatever?
>> So, honestly, I don't listen to any
podcasts. Isn't that terrible to admit?
>> Well, if you host I will say this, if
you host a podcast, you're either
preparing for a podcast,
>> doing a podcast, or auditing a podcast,
right? So, it's like, all right, that's
three or four.
>> That's all it is. Yeah.
>> Right. Every now and then, I'll I'll
catch something because I want to either
listen to this a specific guest. Like, I
I will not listen to any podcasts that
you're on before we do our podcast
because I don't want to steal anybody
else's
>> Yeah. or
>> narrative or questions or line of
thinking. So I that's purposeful.
>> Um but every now and then so I listen to
>> the things I listen to are like um John
Pizarelli's Radio Deluxe. Yeah.
>> Um which is sort of like a podcast
slashmusic
series.
>> Something a little different. Exact.
Exactly. Right.
>> What about streaming? What are you
watching?
>> Well, you you and I are both big
Godfather fans, so we love all the the
mobster. Have you seen Mob Land yet with
with All right.
>> Worth your time.
>> Okay.
>> Pierce Brosman eats up every scene. Tom
Hardy is awfully good. I just love him
in anything.
>> If you I don't know if you ever saw
Peiquey Blinders, right? There's a
modern version of
>> I kind of fall into it.
>> So, my issue is I have to watch
something that my wife tolerates. Like I
I have friends
>> that's a struggle. Who like he goes into
this room, she goes into that room, they
don't watch anything together. Like I
don't know how that works. Like
>> she will watch some stuff without me. I
will watch some stuff without her.
>> You gota have your own space.
>> 80% of what we watch. So I have fallen
down the British upstairs downstairs
Gilded Age. So we watched The Crown, we
watched The Guilded Age. We finally
>> Let me give you one.
>> Back to Downtown Abbey, which I missed
when it first rolled out.
>> Check out. So, my guilty pleasure, and I
do watch this with my wife, is a
diplomat.
>> I just The new series just the new
season just dropped. Yeah.
>> And that's teed up for this weekend. I'm
looking forward to that.
>> Excellent.
>> That the first was this season two or
season 3. The first season was great.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm going to give you if you like
that. Um, so my wife finds these really
interest. She got me into Killing Eve,
which was a little more spy fair than
diplomacy. Um, and if you get a chance
to watch Slow Horses.
>> Oh, that's the one I've got to see.
Yeah,
>> it's really So, the first season is
great and people have told me the most
recent season it it some people will
say, I don't like the second or third. I
I know people who loved it all the way
through, but it's it's really um it's
really an interesting, well, beautiful
cast. Just fantastic.
>> Yeah, you you'll love that. Um,
>> our final two questions. Yeah.
>> What sort of advice would you give a
recent college grad interested in either
investing or working with large language
models, working with narrative analysis
and uh artificial intelligence?
>> Don't [laughter]
um and I I say that tongue and cheek. I
I
>> you had a lot of fits and starts going
back seven, eight years
>> for for sure. And I
I tell you what I I think's important.
Uh
you have to what what you what I think
you can accomplish in academia either
grad school or whatever it is is you
build your intellectual capital. And so
I think a lot of times when you
get out of college, you say, "Okay, I'm
just ready to kind of live my life and
start something." And you haven't built
that intellectual capital yet.
The the issue is though is that once you
enter particularly the investment world
where if you're responsible for managing
other people's money,
>> brother, that's it, right? I mean,
you're you're there's there's not you've
that's got to be your your total focus.
You are spending your intellectual
capital. You're not gaining intellectual
capital once you take on a role like
that. So I my first advice is
find a a path where and that's often in
in in academia where you're building
intellectual capital because once you
leave that environment
>> then you're spending it down.
>> You're spending it down.
>> Makes sense.
>> Spending it down.
>> Our final question. What do you know
about the world of fill-in- thelank
investing
uh data analytics narrative storytelling
today would have been helpful 2530 years
ago?
in investing.
Um, I wish I wish I had understood
the role of
let step back a second. I I think that
whether you're talking about data or
whether you're talking about investing,
and I'll speak for myself, but I think
there are a lot of people like me, we
think there's an answer with a capital
A. Uh-huh.
>> Right there in the in the numbers. And
if you just look hard enough and if you
work hard enough, you'll find that
answer, right? You'll find the secret
the secret formula.
>> And you have learned since then.
>> Ain't no such thing. Right now, there is
magic and there are patterns, but it's
it's it's not in the structured data.
It's not in the numbers.
It's actually in the error. It's in the
probabilities.
It's in we call in you know the
stochastic element right the the the
role of chance and understanding that
there are patterns and there's real
magic in understanding that I didn't get
that
>> uh when I was either starting with data
analysis or with investing. I was
looking for the answer with a capital A
as opposed to a process with a capital
P. I I love that answer because so my
exercise in confirmation bias is
I love the fact that you looking back we
all have the benefit of hindsight and
unfortunately that can be a bias to
certain people but when you're looking
back at it you know how it happens at
the moment when you don't know what the
outcome is thinking about it
probabilistically
is a much healthier approach than
saying, "Here's a binary up or down, yes
or no, and I'm either right or wrong."
And I see people struggle with that
constantly.
>> Constantly. When I first started in the
investing world, again, late, I got two
pieces of good advice, right? One was
never go allin,
>> right?
>> Which is which is really interesting
because it's this this business of
investing, it's a wonderful life. You
we're solving puzzles. We meet
interesting people. we get to have these
sort of conversations. It's a it's a
career for a lifetime. And
the two pieces of advice are really
never go allin. And also
reputation is absolutely the most
important thing. And again, especially
when you're young, you think, "Oh, well,
that's not the most important thing. You
know, being right's the most important
thing." It ain't. It's playing the long
game here which you want to.
>> It's never go all in
>> and the right
>> never go all in. By never go all in, you
mean never put everything at risk so
that if it doesn't work out, you're
you're out of the game.
>> You're out. Stay in the game.
>> Was it Gerald Loe's book? The battle for
investment survival.
>> Stay in the game.
>> Avoid that risk of ruin. You you just or
don't ever risk ruin.
>> That makes sense. Because once
>> people don't think in those terms but
that's really allin means risk of ruin.
It's the risk of ruin
and it also connects with reputation
because once you
>> once you blow up it's tough to go back
>> and you start saying oh I can fix it by
taking this shortcut or doing this other
thing
>> and once you do that it never ends well
>> right
>> and uh you tell yourself oh just this
one time it's never this one time
>> Ben this has been absolutely delightful
I'm so glad we finally finally
>> gotten around to doing this. Um I I I'm
just entranced by
>> your thought process. Some of the things
like I love reading stuff of yours that
I totally disagree with. And then
because it forces me to say, well, he's
not just making this up. I know how you
your brain works. And it's like, all
right, if Ben is saying this, then I'm
going to make this my worst case scenar
because it's easy to dismiss it.
Everybody goes out seeking confirming
information and rather than being
dismissive of it, all right, you claim
to think probabilistically.
Where does this fit into the range of
probabilities? And once you start
thinking in those terms, it's like, oh,
so the worst case scenario is worse than
my worst case scenario. I got to move
the bottom of my range down further
because if this goes off the rails, this
is really bad. That's what your Pax
Americana piece did with me and it
really it really helped me
>> figure out how to think about especially
in that week
>> between April 2nd and 9th where everyone
was losing their mind. It's like oh no
so they're losing their mind because hey
this could happen but maybe something
good comes out of it.
>> Trying to avoid tunnel vision I think is
so important in our business or any
business but especially our business
>> in our business in particular. Um, well,
thank you for being so generous with
your time. We have been speaking with
Ben Hunts. He is the co-founder and
president of Precience, and you can find
his writing at Epsilon Theory. If you
enjoy this conversation, well, check out
any of the 593
we've done over the past 11 and a half
years. [music]
You can find those at Bloomberg, iTunes,
Spotify, YouTube, wherever you find your
favorite podcasts. Be sure and check out
my new book, How Not to Invest: The
Ideas, Numbers, and Behaviors That
Destroy Wealth and How to Avoid Them at
your favorite book seller. I would be
remiss if I did not thank the crack
staff that helps put these [music]
conversations together each week. Alexis
Noriega is my video producer. Shawn
Russo [music] is my researcher. Annalook
is my podcast producer. Sha Sage Bowman
is the head of podcasts here at
Bloomberg. I'm Barry Roltz. You've been
listening to Masters [music] in Business
on Bloomberg Radio.